README.md, before:

# To Press

## Clay Impressions

[View the live project in GitHub Pages]()
![Image]()

### Overview

This is a user-centric static website for Elisabetta Schiavini and Sabrina Cardani, two ceramic artists based in Italy.
As the artists are Italian, the website has both an English and Italian version.
It is designed to be responsive on all devices (desktop screens, tablets and smartphones). 
Their ceramics and artworks are not expensive, their products are accessible to everyone. What separates *To Press* products from their competitors is that they are tailored to the customers specifics needs.   

I will not be adopting a B2C strategy for this website. A B2C website aims to trigger the customer to make an impulsive purchase using a three steps rule of thumb. I have decided this is not appropriate for this artistic project. The business goal is to establish an individual relationship with the client diversifying its offer. This increases customer satisfaction. The client buying an exclusive and unique product feels to be important and special.  

The website aims to allow customer/s to get in touch with the artists by using a contact form that is clear and accessible. The website aims to be transparent showing the prices of artworks and ceramics. The main goal of the website is to sell the creations of the artists, whilst generates an online presence that also builds trust among potential customers or followers on social media pages.

---
## User Experience (UX)

#### Visitors of this website are looking for:
- A bespoke, original and unique gift.
- An artistic collaboration.
- A personalized object and product.

#### The *Target Audience* of the business is:
- An English or Italian speaker.
- Someone who lives in Italy (if they want to collaborate in person with the artists).
- A ceramic and art lover.
- Anybody who wants to make a bespoke gift for someone.
- Businesses and individuals who require ceramics commissions.

### User Stories
- First Time Visitors goals:
     - As a First Time Visitor of the website, I want to learn more about the artists, their mission and what they do.
     - As a First Time Visitor, I expect to navigate the website easily and smoothly in order to find the information I need.
     - As a First Time Visitor, I want to explore the artists' gallery of artworks and prices so I can decide if it is a company I can do business with. 
- Returning Visitors goals:
    - As a Returning Visitor, I want to get in contact with the artists to buy their artworks.
    - As a Returning Visitor, I want to request a personalized and unique product.
    - As a Returning Visitor, I want to locate their social media links and gain a deeper understanding of their activities.
- Frequent Visitors goals:
    - As a Frequent Visitor, I want to view new creations, new ceramic series or a new collection.
    - As a Frequent Visitor, I want to place another order. I want to get in contact with the company using an easily accessible contact page.
- Local Artists goals:
    - As a Local Artist, I look for collaboration projects so I want to contact them showing my portfolio. 
    - As a Local Ceramic Artist, I want to get in touch with the artists and be able to use their laboratory/studio to craft my ceramics.
    - As a Designer, I want to commit to the artists the production of ceramic series (usually little objects). 
---
## Strategy
The aim of this project is to spread awareness of the two ceramists leading the users to contact them via email or through their social media pages.

The business goals of this website in order of importance are:
1. Create an online presence for the two local artists and increase consumer awareness.
2. Allow potential clients to buy the artworks via a contact form.
3. Create new opportunities of collaboration with designers and other artists.
4. Showcase the artists' CV and portfolio to build consumer trust.
5. Increase number of followers on the artists social media pages.

The customers goals of this website are:
1. View and inspect the artworks, the product specifics and prices.
2. Ask for a personalized and customized product. 
3. Place an order quickly, intuitively and easily.

## Scope
I want to offer to the users an overview of the artists mission, artworks and portfolio. The scope of this project is to keep them interested and engaged until they make the decision to get in touch with the artists filling a contact form.
Following a Minimal Viable Product (MVP) scheme this website wants to accomplish:
- Clarity.
- Simplicity.
- Respect users expectations and confidence.

## Structure
The information is organized to offer an intuitive interaction to the users.
The paragraphs with contents and information are not too dense and packed.
The structure is simple and follows a linear narrative. This allows the users to navigate themselves to the 'Contact us' page keeping their attention with a good UX design.

## Skeleton
- [Landing Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/1-home-page.pdf)
- [About Us Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/2-about-page.pdf)
- [Gallery Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/3-gallery-page.pdf)
- [Customize your product Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/4-customize-page.pdf)
- [Contact Us Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/5-contact-page.pdf)

## Surface
**Design Scheme**

It plays with neutral light colours which invoke earth-tones and clay's hues:

* I've chosen a soft pink (#) for backgrounds.
* I've used a gray (#) for body-text to make it outstanding and in contrast.
* I've chosen off-white (#fafafa) for the navigation bar adding a transition (when the mouse hovers over the text) that turns it into a darker pink (#).
* I've used a darker gray (#) for headings.

**Typography**
* "Fredericka the Great" font ("Exo" as fallback font) for headings. I've chosen this font for its artistic and clear aspect.
* "Josefin Slab" font ("Montserrat" as fallback font) for body content. I've chosen this font for its elegant design.

**Imagery**

The images have been carefully selected to be eye-catching, appealing and compelling. The purpose is to showcase the most recent and important pieces created by the artists. The artists also want the images to clearly show that is possible to personalize the product/object on request.

---
## Features
### Existing Features
- Five different and individual pages.
- On every page is present a header logo of the business brand (top-left), if clicked brings the user back to the landing page as they expect.
- On every page is present a header navigation bar, fixed and centered, that allows the user to navigate easily through the different sections.
- On every page is present in the navigation bar a language switcher to select the preferred language (English or Italian).
- On every page is present a fixed footer, which provides business copyright info and social media pages icons (bottom-right), if clicked it brings the user to social media platforms opened on a different tab.
- On every page is present a call to action button which leads the user to the next step.
- On the "Landing page" is present a promotional video of the artists in their studio. It keeps the users engaged and invites them to look through the website's contents.
- On the "About Us" section is provided a downloadable PDF version of the artists' CV/portfolio that gets opened in another tab.
- On the "Gallery page" is present a preview of the artworks, if clicked opens a Fancybox viewer which can enlarge and zoom the image and allows to move back and forward through the images.
- On the "Contact page" is present a form which allows users to get in touch with the artists uploading images or files together with their request message.

### Features to add in future
- The contact form submission button has to be functional when pressed and provide a feedback to the users to make them feel assured(Javascript needed).
- Add CAPTCHA, a challenge-response authentication, to the contact form to block spammers and bots (Javascript needed).
- Add General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which protects the Privacy Policy of European Union residents (Javascript needed).
- Add "Art and ceramic lessons" page. This is a further opportunity for the artists to gain a different income but they need time to organize this activity and to feature its programme.
---
## Technologies Used
### Languages Used
1. HTML [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
2. CSS [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)

### Frameworks, Libraries and Programs Used
1. [Bootstrap4](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.4/getting-started/introduction/) : was used to provide responsiveness on all device sizes and add some stylistic components.
2. [Hover.css](https://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/) : a third part library used to add the transition effect to social media links in the footer and to the navbar text. 
3. [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/) : was used to add icons for social media links.
4. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) : was used to import typography fonts.
5. [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) : was used to create wireframes during the design of the layout.
6. [jQuery](https://jquery.com/) : was used to make the navbar responsive.
7. [Popper.js](https://popper.js.org/) : was used to make the navbar responsive.
8. [AutoPrefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) : was used to analyse the CSS code and make it suitable for all browsers.
9. [Fancybox](https://fancyapps.com/fancybox/3/) : was used in the "Gallery" page to view and browse images easily.
10. [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/) : is the open-source IDE (Integrated Development Environment) that I used to create my project.
11. [Git](https://git-scm.com/) : was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal (CLI) to commit to Git and push to GitHub.
12. [GitHub](https://github.com/) : is a hosting platform used to deploy and store the project code after being pushed from Git.
---
## Testing
### Bugs and challenges during the project
---
## Deployment
---
## Credits
### Resources Used
- [CSS flexbox](https://dev.to/domysee/keeping-the-footer-at-the-bottom-with-css-flexbox-5h5f) - to keep the footer at the bottom of the page.
### Code
### Content
- The content of the "Home page", "About us" page and "Customize your product" page was written by the artists Elisabetta Schiavini and Sabrina Cardani and translated into English by Marta Marassi.
- The text and headings in the rest of the website were created by Marta Marassi.
### Media
- All the images used in the website were created by Elisabetta Schiavini and Sabrina Cardani.
---
## Acknowledgements

Commit message:

Add favicons and logo in html file

README.md, after:

# To Press

## Clay Impressions

[View the live project in GitHub Pages](https://github.com/Marta44/to-press2019)
![Image]()

### Overview

This is a user-centric static website for Elisabetta Schiavini and Sabrina Cardani, two ceramic artists based in Italy.
As the artists are Italian, the website has both an English and Italian version.
It is designed to be responsive on all devices (desktop screens, tablets and smartphones). 
Their ceramics and artworks are not expensive, their products are accessible to everyone. What separates *To Press* products from their competitors is that they are tailored to the customers specifics needs.   

I will not be adopting a B2C strategy for this website. A B2C website aims to trigger the customer to make an impulsive purchase using a three steps rule of thumb. I have decided this is not appropriate for this artistic project. The business goal is to establish an individual relationship with the client diversifying its offer. This increases customer satisfaction. The client buying an exclusive and unique product feels to be important and special.  

The website aims to allow customer/s to get in touch with the artists by using a contact form that is clear and accessible. The website aims to be transparent showing the prices of artworks and ceramics. The main goal of the website is to sell the creations of the artists, whilst generates an online presence that also builds trust among potential customers or followers on social media pages.

---
## User Experience (UX)

#### Visitors of this website are looking for:
- A bespoke, original and unique gift.
- An artistic collaboration.
- A personalized object and product.

#### The *Target Audience* of the business is:
- An English or Italian speaker.
- Someone who lives in Italy (if they want to collaborate in person with the artists).
- A ceramic and art lover.
- Anybody who wants to make a bespoke gift for someone.
- Businesses and individuals who require ceramics commissions.

### User Stories
- First Time Visitors goals:
     - As a First Time Visitor of the website, I want to learn more about the artists, their mission and what they do.
     - As a First Time Visitor, I expect to navigate the website easily and smoothly in order to find the information I need.
     - As a First Time Visitor, I want to explore the artists' gallery of artworks and prices so I can decide if it is a company I can do business with. 
- Returning Visitors goals:
    - As a Returning Visitor, I want to get in contact with the artists to buy their artworks.
    - As a Returning Visitor, I want to request a personalized and unique product.
    - As a Returning Visitor, I want to locate their social media links and gain a deeper understanding of their activities.
- Frequent Visitors goals:
    - As a Frequent Visitor, I want to view new creations, new ceramic series or a new collection.
    - As a Frequent Visitor, I want to place another order. I want to get in contact with the company using an easily accessible contact page.
- Local Artists goals:
    - As a Local Artist, I look for collaboration projects so I want to contact them showing my portfolio. 
    - As a Local Ceramic Artist, I want to get in touch with the artists and be able to use their laboratory/studio to craft my ceramics.
    - As a Designer, I want to commit to the artists the production of ceramic series (usually little objects). 
---
## Strategy
The aim of this project is to spread awareness of the two ceramists leading the users to contact them via email or through their social media pages.

The business goals of this website in order of importance are:
1. Create an online presence for the two local artists and increase consumer awareness.
2. Allow potential clients to buy the artworks via a contact form.
3. Create new opportunities of collaboration with designers and other artists.
4. Showcase the artists' CV and portfolio to build consumer trust.
5. Increase number of followers on the artists social media pages.

The customers goals of this website are:
1. View and inspect the artworks, the product specifics and prices.
2. Ask for a personalized and customized product. 
3. Place an order quickly, intuitively and easily.

## Scope
I want to offer to the users an overview of the artists mission, artworks and portfolio. The scope of this project is to keep them interested and engaged until they make the decision to get in touch with the artists filling a contact form.
Following a Minimal Viable Product (MVP) scheme this website wants to accomplish:
- Clarity.
- Simplicity.
- Respect users expectations and confidence.

## Structure
The information is organized to offer an intuitive interaction to the users.
The paragraphs with contents and information are not too dense and packed.
The structure is simple and follows a linear narrative. This allows the users to navigate themselves to the 'Contact us' page keeping their attention with a good UX design.

## Skeleton
- [Landing Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/1-home-page.pdf)
- [About Us Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/2-about-page.pdf)
- [Gallery Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/3-gallery-page.pdf)
- [Customize your product Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/4-customize-page.pdf)
- [Contact Us Page wireframe](/workspace/to-press2019/assets/wireframes/5-contact-page.pdf)

## Surface
**Design Scheme**

It plays with neutral light colours which invoke earth-tones and clay's hues:

* I've chosen a soft pink (#) for backgrounds.
* I've used a gray (#) for body-text to make it outstanding and in contrast.
* I've chosen off-white (#fafafa) for the navigation bar adding a transition (when the mouse hovers over the text) that turns it into a darker pink (#).
* I've used a darker gray (#) for headings.

**Typography**
* "Fredericka the Great" font ("Exo" as fallback font) for headings. I've chosen this font for its artistic and clear aspect.
* "Josefin Slab" font ("Cormorant" as fallback font) for body content. I've chosen this font for its elegant design.

**Imagery**

The images have been carefully selected to be eye-catching, appealing and compelling. The purpose is to showcase the most recent and important pieces created by the artists. The artists also want the images to clearly show that is possible to personalize the product/object on request.

---
## Features
### Existing Features
- Five different and individual pages.
- On every page is present a header logo of the business brand (top-left), if clicked brings the user back to the landing page as they expect.
- On every page is present a header navigation bar, fixed and centered, that allows the user to navigate easily through the different sections.
- On every page is present in the navigation bar a language switcher to select the preferred language (English or Italian).
- On every page is present a fixed footer, which provides business copyright info and social media pages icons (bottom-right), if clicked it brings the user to social media platforms opened on a different tab.
- On every page is present a call to action button which leads the user to the next step.
- On the "Landing page" is present a promotional video of the artists in their studio. It keeps the users engaged and invites them to look through the website's contents.
- On the "About Us" section is provided a downloadable PDF version of the artists' CV/portfolio that gets opened in another tab.
- On the "Gallery page" is present a preview of the artworks, if clicked opens a Fancybox viewer which can enlarge and zoom the image and allows to move back and forward through the images.
- On the "Contact page" is present a form which allows users to get in touch with the artists uploading images or files together with their request message.

### Features to add in future
- The contact form submission button has to be functional when pressed and provide a feedback to the users to make them feel assured(Javascript needed).
- Add CAPTCHA, a challenge-response authentication, to the contact form to block spammers and bots (Javascript needed).
- Add General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which protects the Privacy Policy of European Union residents (Javascript needed).
- Add "Art and ceramic lessons" page. This is a further opportunity for the artists to gain a different income but they need time to organize this activity and to feature its programme.
---
## Technologies Used
### Languages Used
1. HTML [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
2. CSS [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)

### Frameworks, Libraries and Programs Used
1. [Bootstrap4](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.4/getting-started/introduction/) : was used to provide responsiveness on all device sizes and add some stylistic components.
2. [Hover.css](https://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/) : a third part library used to add the transition effect to social media links in the footer and to the navbar text. 
3. [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/) : was used to add icons for social media links.
4. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) : was used to import typography fonts.
5. [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) : was used to create wireframes during the design of the layout.
6. [jQuery](https://jquery.com/) : was used to make the navbar responsive.
7. [Popper.js](https://popper.js.org/) : was used to make the navbar responsive.
8. [AutoPrefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) : was used to analyse the CSS code and make it suitable for all browsers.
9. [Fancybox](https://fancyapps.com/fancybox/3/) : was used in the "Gallery" page to view and browse images easily.
10. [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/) : is the open-source IDE (Integrated Development Environment) that I used to create my project.
11. [Git](https://git-scm.com/) : was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal (CLI) to commit to Git and push to GitHub.
12. [GitHub](https://github.com/) : is a hosting platform used to deploy and store the project code after being pushed from Git.
---
## Testing
### Bugs and challenges during the project
---
## Deployment
---
## Credits
### Resources Used
- [HTML format](https://www.granneman.com/webdev/coding/formatting-and-indenting-your-html) - to learn how to format and indent my html code.
- [CSS format](https://github.com/necolas/idiomatic-css/blob/master/README.md) - to learn how to write consistent and idiomatic css code.
- [CSS reference](https://tympanus.net/codrops/css_reference/) - collection of properties and info to learn css from the basics.
- [CSS flexbox](https://dev.to/domysee/keeping-the-footer-at-the-bottom-with-css-flexbox-5h5f) - to keep the footer at the bottom of the page.
- [Markdown syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/) - to learn how to write markdown language.
- [Readme format](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Solutions/readme-template/blob/master/README.md) - to learn how to structure a readme file.
- [Commit messages](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) - to learn how to write good commit messages in the CLI.
- [Deploy to Github Pages](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/f1-u3-github-pages) - to learn how to deploy my project to Github pages.
- [Javascripts position](https://flaviocopes.com/javascript-async-defer/) - to learn how load Javascript efficiently in my html file.
- [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) - General resource.
- [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/) - General resource.
- [W3.CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/w3css/4/w3.css) - General resource.
- [Bootsrap Grid Explanation by Anna Greaves](https://ajgreaves.github.io/bootstrap-grid-demo/) - to learn the Bootstrap grid system.
- [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) - to find the right matching color palette for my website.

### Code
### Content
- The content of the "Home page", "About us" page and "Customize your product" page was written by the artists Elisabetta Schiavini and Sabrina Cardani and translated into English by Marta Marassi.
- The text and headings in the rest of the website were created by Marta Marassi.
### Media
- All the images used in the website were created by Elisabetta Schiavini and Sabrina Cardani.
---
## Acknowledgements
